---
title: Komma Games Notebook
enableToc: false
---

Welcome! I'm Kevin, but online people mostly call me Komma Chameleon. This website is an open notebook; a digital garden of my research and thoughts on subjects like writing, history, nature, foreign languages, and games of all kinds. My goal is to build up a public body of knowledge that anybody can wander through.

## Where to start?

- [[About Me]] and my [[Rules for Using This Vault]]
- Maps
	- Learn about my [[Game Reviews and Recommendations]]
	- Check out my [[Project List]]
	- Enjoy gaming in a variety of formats: [[Video Gaming]], [[Board Gaming]], and [[TTRPG Gaming]] 
	- My gamedev/writing [[Worldbuilding]]
	- My notes on [[Human Languages]]
	- [[Programming]] and [[Gamedev]] notes
	- My niche [[Furry]] content
- Key tags
	- \#best
	- \#essays that cover my personal thoughts
- ...or pick a recently updated note from the list at the bottom of this page!

## What you should expect

**I might be wrong.** This notebook is an act of learning and creating in public. It may occasionally contain factual errors, misleading phrases, or omit critical context. Please don't hold this against me. We're all learners! I encourage you to refer to multiple sources about anything important.

I am **explicitly inviting you to criticize my work.** Every page in here is a living document. You can reach me at any of the social media links included in the footer on each page. (Telegram works best.) I will do my best to act on feedback and correct my notes. If this disagreement is a matter of opinion, I encourage you to write and publish your own thoughts in your own notebook.

**License.** Except where indicated otherwise, each note is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). You are welcome to quote the notes and link back here, but please don't plagiarize. If you think there's something that shouldn't be here, let me know.

## What I promise to you

**I will always take others into consideration.** This notebook will contain no private conversations or confidential information. If I talk negatively about a game, an idea, or a project, I will try to limit that to the *work*, not the people who worked on it or said it. I will strive to treat others the way they want to be treated.

**I will provide personal context for beliefs and notes.** I'll let you know what degree of experience I have in the topic, how strongly I hold a belief, and link out to resources where you can learn more. In line with this goal, I've adopted these tags:

- \#fleeting for early, rough ideas.
- \#journal for my thoughts or experiences tied to a specific date.
- \#lit - an informational note from a specific book, article, video, etc.
- \#atom - a permanent, valuable note that captures a single idea.
- \#map - note that exists to organize other notes (like this index).

**I will make fictional contexts clear** when I'm discussing a detail of a fictional property or my own worldbuilding. I do not want anybody to get confused between fiction and reality.

**No filler text** generated by an AI language model or similar tool. I aim to be authentically human, warts and all.

**I will try to reward feedback, but can't promise to agree or respond to all of it.** I ultimately run this website for my own benefit, so I will not beg for views or feedback. I will listen to feedback and correct things I get wrong as soon as I can. However, I don't write with the rigor of an academic.